---
title: "Day 6 - gwvault"
date: 2018-11-09T20:18:45-05:00
---
## gwvault
Submitted a PR today to an open source project, [gwvault](https://github.com/GoodwayGroup/gwvault) created by my colleague [Derek Smith](https://github.com/clok) who I've thanked before in this blog for the excellent feedback and design sense he is always willing to share.

It was my first PR to a Go project (other than my own [systips](https://github.com/paulojblack/systips)) and this point I'm willing to say I'm sold on Go as an awesome language. It's been absolutely painless every step of the way, with the brief exception of figuring out how to write unit tests, and in a short span of time I've been able to write and try out a number of different little utilities and language capabilities. One feature in a language I generally have no interest in is the subjective sense of "readability", which in my experience is, for some reason, in the same sentence as the word "Python" quite often<sup>[1]({{< relref "20181109.md#1" >}})</sup>. That said, considering how many different Go projects I've read through over the last week and how straightforward it was to jump into a project whose code I had never read before and open a PR within an hour, I've gotta say, Go is pretty damn readable. If you happen to read the footnote, don't judge my hypocrisy in mentioning that!

## I assign you to spread your chunked curry
Probably didn't think this one all the way through today, but I found a bug in an API I'm building that resulted from a third party's documentation on an endpoint I use being uncharacteristically absent. Although I think it's fun to write very functional and concise code, I usually stay away from it because it tends to be a giant pain in the ass to maintain for any other programmer, or me if more than 2 weeks have passed since I wrote it. Today I wasn't able to avoid it however, due to time constraints and kinda wanting to write anything other than super simple declarative code.

I essentially had to [chunk](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.11#chunk) an array of ids, then call an endpoint with each chunk until I had iterated through the entire original array. So instead of  
```
const myIds = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
const result = callEndpoint(myIds)
```

I had something like
```
const myIdChunks = _.chunk([1, 2, 3, 4, 5], 2)

const result = myIdChunks.map(await callEndpoint)
```
Now you may already see the funkiness here.

**TODO**
theres no way anyone's going to read this but on the off chance you're here, I'm committing this unfinished bc I gotta get my night started but wanna keep up the 1 day 1 commit thing. If you're me reading this any later than tomorrow, shame on you.

<hr style="border-top: dashed 2px rgb(0,0,0)"/>
</hr>
<a name="1" >1</a> I tried not to trigger myself by bringing this up but I failed. Python's cult-like evangelists keep company with flat earthers, scientologists, and 9/11 truthers, and  when I hear a proponent not only claim that it is "readable" (insofar as that is a meaningful statement to begin with) but that that is at all basis for adopting the language, I have to shut myself in the closet before I start spamming "fite me irl" in a stackoverflow thread.  

"Python is great for beginners" can be translated to "get em while they're young". Just point them to the install pages for `conda` and `PyCharm` and let em loose, soon they'll be contributing to the millions of lines of multi-layer nested terse keywords and wondering what the fuck a dunder method is. Not to mention the financial cost of replacing their laptop when they throw it out a window after annihilating their base Python environment because no one ever told them if you so much as want to look at a Python module you better treat your working environment like Hannibal Lecter's prison.
